[Music]
hi I'm Patti Moreno the garden girl and
I'm here today to talk to you about
America's unsustainable obsession with
lawns traditionally lawns were status
symbol in feudal Europe large green
lawns meant that the estate had lots of
sheep and lots of cattle and that was
the basis of feudal economies Americans
have been obsessed with long since the
1950s but that mindset is changing it's
time to rethink our laws lawns use up a
staggering amount of energy to maintain
they use up lots of water they take a
valuable real estate and the pesticides
and petrochemicals you use to fertilize
your lawn seep into and contaminate our
groundwater and hey those power tools
they contribute to air pollution and
noise pollution it's time for America to
transform its green lawns into green
landscape some of the things you can do
are decrease the size of your lawn or
eliminated entirely like I have in this
area
and design a more natural landscape
using native plants that thrive in your
area native plants shouldn't use more
water than falls in your climate I live
in the Northeast and I have maple trees
lilac bushes and my personal favorite
rhododendron how about turning your lawn
into an edible landscape by starting
your own mini orchard using dwarf and
semi dwarf apple trees will have flowers
in the spring shade in the summer and
fruit to eat in the fall don't forget to
put at least a two inch thick layer of
mulch it'll keep the moisture in and
leave but if you just can't live without
your lawn here are a few eco-friendly
things you can get get rid of those
powerful for more traditional methods of
cutting your grass like a push mower
clippers or this hand tool
set up a rain collector under one of
your downspouts attach a hose and use it
to water your lawn and landscape plants
another thing you can do is add a water
feature they add interest beauty and a
natural quality to your landscape and if
you have kids they're pretty educational
to use organic fertilizers available at
your local garden centers organic
fertilizers are clearly marked on the
label but these can be pricey so
consider starting your own compost for
the more adventurous gardeners use
chickens and a chicken tractor like me
the chicken eat the grass and leave the
manure behind as fertilizer when it's
time to move the cage the chickens go
with it
[Music]
so for a more sustainable planet it
starts with you I'm Patti Moreno the
garden girl thanks for watching
[Music]